Let them through!
Let them through! Let them through!
What's happening?
Raiders are holding back our deliveries.
- Let them through!
- What deliveries?
All of 'em. Let them through!
Let them through!
Let them through! Let them through!
Easy.
I barely touched you.
Does it hurt?
'Course it fucking hurts.
We should get the whole crew in here.
Let them see you crying about a scrape.
Can you keep it down?
- Thanks.
- You owe me.
Walk, we'll get McLain back.
She's the head of Supply.
She's too important.
She's their enemy, just like us.
So head of anything don't mean nothing.
That sheriff's looking for you,
so you better get moving.
Yeah, looking for you too, Walk.
Well, he's gonna have an easy time then,
isn't he?
'Cause I'm not going anywhere.
Who's this?
Mark, this is Shirley.
She's twice the mechanic I'll ever be.
Well, that ain't hard.
I was wondering when you'd be back.
It's quite the operation you got here.
Yeah, we're small, but we get it done.
Lee.
Shit.
I asked Mark to turn away
anyone asking him to make weapons.
And make them only for you?
Raiders stopping deliveries,
including food and... that's not all.
I came in to do inventory for breakfast
and noticed it on everything.
Fruits. Vegetables. Meat. Even the eggs.
What is it?
Only one thing
has that particular shade of blue.
Rat poison.
You sure?
Something else got here before I did.
Point is, someone did this.
Maybe this is connected
to the food deliveries being stopped.
I wouldn't put it past Bernard,
but that means someone down here
is working for him.
Either way, we're gonna need a new plan.
Let them through!
There is a truth, Mr. Amundsen,
that has applied to human civilization
from the before times until now.
Only nine missed meals
separate a functioning society from chaos.
Who the fuck is that?
This is Felix.
He's been shadowing our doc.
So you think just because
I'm a lowlife criminal
that I... I don't need a doctor?
I just get a shadow?
No. Doc Phelan
went to stay with family in the Mids.
Of course he did.
How old are you anyway, huh, kid?
You started shaving yet?
Have your fucking balls dropped?
The doctor wouldn't have left
if he didn't think his shadow was ready.
And you're sure about that?
You can do this, right?
Just get the bullet out.
Wait, hold on a second.
Hold on one rat-fucking second.
Aren't you forgetting something?
Drugs, Felix.
Before you go digging around,
you need to give me drugs.
And lots of them.
Only doctors have the strong stuff.
I've got aspirin.
He's got aspirin.
You're really gonna arrest them?
Knox, Shirley, Walker?
I took an oath to protect the Pact.
Knox and Shirley need to be brought in
for their own good
and the good of the Silo.
I can help you find them,
if that's what you think we should do.
Clearly, you don't.
It doesn't matter what I think.
When Sheriff Holston had me
put my hand on the Pact,
I swore an oath.
Hank... if they're the solid citizens
you say they are,
they'll turn themselves in.
Let's quiet down now!
Turn yourselves in! Turn yourselves in!
Everyone, shut up!
You've all heard what's being said.
That we killed Judge Meadows.
I swear on my life, that's a lie.
We went up to talk
and found her already dead.
We were framed
by Bernard Holland and Robert Sims,
and we were lucky to make it back alive.
How long are we gonna be alive?
I got two kids,
and I'll go hungry so they can eat,
but what happens
when there's none left for them either?
Are you really gonna make
our children starve for you?
It seems to me like they've already won.
Just look at us,
ready to tear two of our own to pieces
if they don't give themselves up to die.
You know, maybe you want me
to go out there too.
You could do that.
But then, in a couple of days,
you'll see us all out there on that hill,
fallen, where we tried to follow Jules.
Or they'll hang us by a rope
outside Judicial.
You'll have your food deliveries though.
You'll have Bernard
patting your heads saying,
"Good job. Now get back to work."
Is that gonna feel like winning?
No. Well, it sure will to them
'cause this is exactly how they want us,
fighting amongst ourselves,
following their rules,
believing that everything
that goes wrong is our fault.
'Cause that's the way it's always been,
but that doesn't make it right.
We're Mechanical.
We don't fight over food, we share it.
We don't blame each other for shortages,
we pool our resources,
we tighten our belts, we--
We don't wanna starve!
Listen up! Listen up!
Nobody's starving. Not today. Teddy.
As anyone who's ever worked
the scavenge room knows,
not everything
that comes down the chute is trash.
"To our friends in Mechanical.
Thanks for always keeping the power on.
From your friends on 122. Juliette lives."
Dr. Nichols?
Oh, Kathleen.
What brings you here? Is Claire all right?
Claire is asleep, so I'm fine.
My husband needs a favor.
Is he still down in Mechanical?
He is.
There's someone down there
who needs a doctor.
I think there's a process
for requesting a doctor
through the sheriff's department.
He'd rather not do it that way.
Sir, we're hearing Mechanical's allies
are dropping food down the trash chutes.
Ahead of schedule, which is good news.
It accelerates our time line.
Post raiders at every chute access point.
- Yes, sir.
- Whatever food they received
will run out soon enough.
So, when we run out again, that'll be it?
We surrender?
What level's the barricade?
130.
What if it was on 120?
They are gonna need you down there.
Now more than ever.
All right. All right!
You trying to break the damn door down?
I'm not that deaf.
Walker, this is Sheriff Billings.
You were Juliette's deputy.
You here to arrest me?
First, I'd like to ask you some questions
about what happened to Judge Meadows.
How should I know? I didn't go in.
- Ask Knox and Shirley.
- They must have told you what happened.
Look, I'm not talking about anybody,
let alone Judge Meadows,
until you find out
where they're holding McLain.
Carla McLain. It's head of Supply.
I last saw her in the café on 70.
No doubt they've taken her in by now.
And I wanna know
if she's alive and unharmed.
If so, I'll talk to you.
If not,
guess you better find Knox and Shirley.
- Wait.
- I have questions about a murder--
No access beyond here.
I'm a doctor.
There's a medical emergency.
I was asked to help.
Turn around.
Sheriff Billings requested me.
I don't know anything about that,
so you're not getting through.
Go back up.
- A woman's in labor. It's an emergency.
- Who are you?
Kathleen Billings.
My husband is the sheriff.
Do you know what a C-section is?
It's when they cut the baby
out of the mother.
There are two doctors in the Silo
who can perform that operation.
Dr. Nichols is one of them.
Look, I got my orders--
If anything happens to this woman,
you will be in violation of section 12,
subsection six of the Pact,
"Denial of a citizen's access
to lifesaving health care."
Two coming through!
Well, and a baby!
Three coming through! Back away!
You cross, you might not get back!
- Move! Let's go! Move!
- Back up! I said back up!
Move!
It's okay.
Stay back! Back down now.
At first, I tried shifting
one letter forward, like every A is B,
but that didn't add up to anything.
Then I thought, well,
what if it's one letter backwards?
That didn't give you anything either.
No. So, okay,
I thought, well, what if it's, you know,
two or three letters off, you know?
Or even four or five?
And so I started doing it all by hand,
but I thought, you know,
- it'd be faster to just write a program.
- Smart.
What you're doing
is called a Caesar shift, by the way.
It's a long story.
Keep at it.
Mrs. Sims.
Mayor Holland.
Camille, I heard that
you helped Judge Meadows's murderers
the other day.
I answered a request
for all former raiders to report for duty
and help with the hunt.
When I got to 90, I noticed two citizens
being harassed by some locals.
I took them to a safe place.
Then I radioed Judicial Security,
told them where they were
and to send an extraction team,
and I'd meet them on the stairs.
Why didn't you wait
until the team got there?
Because no team was sent.
I was told unofficially
that justice needed to come
from the citizens of the Silo.
I was approached
by a group of these citizens,
several of them raiders I knew,
now in civilian clothes,
and they asked
where I'd stashed the two suspects.
But you didn't tell them.
Of course not.
I knew from my time in Judicial
that vigilante justice is against the law.
And we all have to obey the law.
Yes.
You know, it was your husband
who instructed the crowd to go get them.
I'm curious what his response was
when you told him about this.
He's the judge now. He understood.
Of course he did.
Yes.
We've got this for now. Come on!
Go get a hot meal in the cafeteria.
We got this.
What the actual fuck?
Radio Amundsen.
We need tactical defense equipment.
- Tactical defense?
- Guns. We need guns.
Mr. Amundsen. This is Unit 19.
This is Amundsen. Go.
Sir, there may be
a situation brewing here.
We need
advanced tactical defense equipment.
Fuck.
- Sir, my aunt on 135 just--
- Not now.
Okay.
- Where's the patient?
- Okay, he's over there.
Thank you.
Honey.
Honey, what are you doing?
Dr. Nichols could use my help.
I told you, it's not safe down here.
Paul, it's not safe anywhere.
Hey.
Very touching family reunion.
But you think maybe we could
get this fucking bullet out?
That'd be great.
Hey, come here. Hey.
- Okay.
- Are you okay?
I missed you.
See Mama? Are you looking around?
Why am I here, Diego?
Mechanical is massing
for an assault on the barricade.
They have weapons and armor--
I'm sure Mr. Amundsen is aware.
He is, but he doesn't know what I know.
We have been relying on listeners
since the cameras below 120 went out.
I don't trust 'em.
Someone I do trust is my aunt.
She's on 135, and she sent a message
saying a bunch of Down-Deepers
were marching up with weapons--
Didn't you already tell me that?
She said there was a second group
heading the other direction.
They had weapons and a saw.
My aunt's in construction.
She said it was the kind of saw
they use to cut through concrete.
Clear.
Sorry to bo...
What the fuck are you doing here?
You're supposed to be in the mines.
Mayor Holland needed my help.
With what?
Some programming.
Where is he?
I don't know.
Can you feel this, Mr. Kennedy?
Yeah, I can. I just don't care.
There it is.
You think they have a team
cutting up through the floor?
And neither Amundsen nor Bernard know?
There's nothing wrong
with letting people suffer
their own mistakes.
As long as the mistake
doesn't endanger everyone else,
including our son.
You can't do anything.
You're the judge now.
I know. Besides, I was never a raider.
- What are they doing?
- We can't see.
Sounds like they were drilling.
Yeah, I know
what drilling sounds like, Derek.
Where are the guns?
Just leaving the armory.
It didn't get your lung.
You're a lucky man.
Yes, sir. That's me. Mr. Lucky.
I held up my end of the deal, Mr. Kennedy.
Let's talk.
You were being serious?
I just wanted to get the bullet out.
Come on now, Mr. Kennedy.
Deputy Hank took time out of his busy day
to hear what you have to say.
I'm feeling a little woozy,
what with the drugs
and having a bullet dug out of me.
You know, maybe tomorrow.
Bandage all good?
I'll take her.
Here you go.
Dr. Nichols,
I'd like a word with the patient.
You should probably go too, Hank.
Maybe he should stay.
You know,
taking all that time and everything.
I'll fill him in.
All right.
Oopsie.
Looks like I made Daddy mad.
Not really.
You're a criminal.
I don't expect much.
But I need what I need,
which is you telling me
what you said you were going to tell me.
'Cause if you don't...
I'll radio Judge Sims.
What?
That's right.
He's Judge now.
I'll tell him where you are,
and who knows?
Maybe he'll put you back in that box.
Or worse.
Okay. Okay.
You're not gonna wanna hear
what I have to say.
- Why?
- Because it'll ruin your fucking life.
When Nichols was on the run,
you happen to be
near a computer when they went dark?
- Do you know why they went dark?
- It was a systems reboot.
That's what they said,
but they say all kinds of shit.
They went dark because Nichols
had my friend Danny
put something
on every computer in the Silo
for ten seconds before they shut it down.
What'd he put up?
I bet they rounded up
everybody who saw it.
Me and Danny...
Who knows what the hell they did to him?
They gagged and bagged us
so we couldn't tell anything to anybody.
Tell anyone what, man?
It's like the page...
only a million times more beautiful.
I couldn't describe it if I fucking tried.
Where does Sims come into this?
Not long after Nichols gets sent out,
Sims comes to me, wants to make a deal.
I put on dirty clothes,
head down to Greasetown,
toss a firebomb at Hank's station.
In return, he'd give me drugs.
Make me forget everything that's
happened to me in the last 22 years.
Obviously, he never intended
to hold up his end.
And the magic forgetting drugs
are probably bullshit,
but I didn't have a lot of options
with a hood over my head.
Now, let me ask you a question.
Isn't there just a little piece of you
that wishes I never told you that?
If our roles were switched,
would you have done the same?
What if I failed, Mary?
140 years of stability,
and it could all end on my watch.
I...
I made the calculations, I...
I planned for everything.
Then... events
forced me...
...to factor you in...
to the calculation.
For that, I'm truly sorry.
Set up a tactical formation here.
Two lines. Now!
- What are you doing?
- There's gonna be an ambush.
- From where?
- They're coming up through the floor.
What?
This is our level!
Guys!
Over there!
Now!
They're gonna pinch us.
Fall back! Go!
Go, go, go!
Come on!
Stop!
You will kill ten of us...
but we will kill all of you...
and take the stairs.
How about
we make this level the new boundary?
That work?
Mr. Mayor, it wasn't optimum,
but they only got ten floors.
"Not optimum."
What level is the new barricade on?
One t... 120.
And what is down on level 122?
Without looking at a map. Anyone?
What's on 122?
Lower Mids farm. It's a farm level.
We're trying to starve them
into submission and now they have a farm.
So, yeah, not optimum.
I heard there was
some kind of a battle on the stairs.
Shouldn't you be there?
I've been busy finding out
what happened to Carla McLain.
She was arrested at that café on 70.
Yeah, where I left her.
So, where is she now?
People usually get transferred to us
for processing,
but Hank's checked in
with every deputy station.
None of them have her.
So, where is she?
In a hospital?
Sometimes,
when raiders have a high-profile,
high-risk suspect,
they're taken into seclusion.
No, they can't do that.
No, Carla has health issues.
She won't survive.
Look, you're the sheriff.
You can do something.
I might be able to get her out,
but only if I can clear her name.
So, please,
what happened to Judge Meadows?
Hell of a plan today.
Well, haven't you heard?
I'm twice the mechanic you'll ever be.
What idiot told you that?
Which means twice the thinker,
twice the engineer.
See, this is why I don't
give people compliments.
To teamwork.
To great partners.
We under arrest, Sheriff?
Martha Walker has given me her account
of what happened with Meadows.
Or at least what she says you told her.
That you walked in
and found the judge dead.
You said Bernard Holland
and Robert Sims were framing you.
Would you swear on the Pact that's true?
Every word.
Sheriff Billings for Mayor Holland.
Speaking.
I've located the fugitives.
Excellent news, Sheriff.
Thank you. Where are they?
I'm not revealing their location
at this time.
First, I need to open
a full investigation into the events
leading to the death of Judge Meadows,
- as well as a new investigation...
- Disable all radio communication
- in the Silo. Now.
- ...attack on the deputy station
in the Down Deep,
which cost two lives, and--
Fuck me. I just lost the sheriff.
Mayor?
Thank you.
For what?
I don't stand with the mayor,
or the judge, or you.
I stand with the law.
Paul, you okay?
You did a very brave thing today.
Brave? Maybe.
Stupid? Definitely.
I doubt I'll be sheriff much longer.
It wasn't stupid
and it was the right thing.
People will see that.
I'm not sure it was right either.
When was the last time
you took your herbs?
I'm sorry, honey, I forgot.
I'm not criticizing.
- Can you pass me that glass of water?
- Right, yeah.
What are you...
Look.
Why do you think that is?
I...
You haven't taken your herbs in days.
But I don't know what's changed.
Maybe you have.
So, this is Quinn's code,
but with the alphabet reversed
and shifted three letters over.
Doesn't look like anything.
It's gobbledygook.
Right, except here...
"Sillo."
I doubt that Salvador Quinn
would spell "silo" wrong.
I thought the same. So, okay.
Here's another iteration, still reversed,
but shifted over ten.
"Allie."
Quinn's daughter's name was Allie.
You might be onto something.
Right.
Except that none of the other words,
you know, are coherent.
Well, this is far beyond a Caesar shift.
This is sophisticated.
It's a code within a code.
In order to decipher it,
you would have to...
What?
You'd have to see the Legacy.
Legacy? I don't know what that is.
Stand up. Stand up!
Lukas Kyle,
I am electing you to be my shadow.
Please place your right hand on the Pact.
Do you accept?
Yes.
Repeat after me.
I, Lukas Kyle...
If you're a friend, come in.
If not, go away.
I hope you still consider me a friend.
It's been a long time.
I wanted to thank you
for taking care of her all these years.
You know, it was her who took care of us.
One of the engineers told me
you managed to have a different tape
used for Juliette's cleaning.
Is that true?
Yes.
That's why she was able
to walk out of sight?
Do you think she's still alive?
No.
Then why give us false hope?
I did it for her, Doctor.
And for you and me, and for everyone
down here who knew and loved her,
and, yeah,
some days wanted to strangle her.
I did it because I knew she wouldn't want
any of us to watch her dying on that hill.
But you don't think she's still alive.
I don't see how.
Hey.
You're awake. Good.
You had an infection. It was a bad one.
Nice to know
that those antibiotics worked.
I made 'em all by myself not too long ago.
I got a helmet.
Where is it? I need to go.
I need to get my suit on.
Yeah, about the suit...
It's safe.
You're gonna get it back.
First, I need you to fix that pump.
What?
You said that if you could get power
- to the pump under the surface...
- No.
...you could stop the water from rising.
Get me my suit.
All right. Well...
think of it as doing me a favor, like,
I saved your life, you save mine,
and then we'll be even.
- Even?
- Yeah.
You're one person.
There's 10,000 fucking people--
Yeah, 10,000 people
that could die any day now.
Just like the people of this silo died.
Look, you can waste time arguing with me
or you can start thinking
about how you're gonna fix that pump.
It's up to you.